src/serial_node/README.md, before:

Ethan Edwards; February 15th, 2026; serial\_node & serial\_msgs

### serial\_msgs 

Now has three different .msg files:

- **CurrentBusVoltage.msg** (header 0x01) ⚡  
* float32 front\_left\_wheel\_current \#amps  
* float32 back\_left\_wheel\_current  
* float32 front\_right\_wheel\_current  
* float32 back\_right\_wheel\_current  
* float32 front\_drum\_current  
* float32 back\_drum\_current  
* float32 front\_actuator\_current  
* float32 back\_actuator\_current  
* float32 main\_battery\_voltage \#volts  
* float32 aux\_battery\_voltage  
- **Temperature.msg** (header 0x02) 🔥  
* float32 front\_left\_wheel\_temperature \#°C  
* float32 back\_left\_wheel\_temperature  
* float32 front\_right\_wheel\_temperature  
* float32 back\_right\_wheel\_temperature  
* float32 front\_drum\_temperature  
* float32 back\_drum\_temperature  
- **Position.msg** (header 0x03) 🌎  
* float32 front\_actuator\_position \# calibrated position  
* float32 back\_actuator\_position

(Note: Feedback.msg still exists, but is now a deprecated file that should *not* be used)  
The messages are created via the following [documentation](https://github.com/MARS-UVA/ESP32S3_25-26/blob/main/ESP-Projects/main/user_libs/uart/serial_feedback_format.md).

Each line is a **float32** to account for the four bytes of data for each data piece; first four bytes aren’t written in the message files as they are covered by **serial\_node** in order to extract the **header** (documented later). ✍️

### serial\_node/serial\_handler.py:

**readMsg** function was updated to account for the **three different message types**. The **header** is stored within the **first four bytes**, and is saved to the variable **self.currentHeader** if self.currentHeader is zero (aka, doesn’t have a header stored right now). The actual header info is stored within the byte at **index 1** (as seen in the above documentation), and **readMsg** checks for a message of a **certain length** (either 8 bytes, 24 bytes, or 40 bytes) depending on the header.  📖

When a full message is received, it is read and returned with the header as a **tuple** of **(header, feedback)**, where header is **4 bytes**, and feedback is a **list** of **4 byte pairs** (to match the .msg file sizes). 📋

### serial\_node/node.py:

This is the node that will actually be running the connection; it subscribes to MotorChanges and creates **three publishers** that send out specific message data. On a timer, this node runs “sendCurrents” and **“readFeedback”**. 🗣️

The **readFeedback** function was updated to now take a tuple pair **(header, feedback)** from the **readMsg** function in **serial\_node/serial\_handler.py**. Using the header (acquired by header\[1\]), it pairs the feedback with one of the msg classes from **serial\_msgs** and publishes it to the publisher. 🐫

If the header is 0x00 or nonexistent, it sends “no data” to the logger. 😵

Commit message:

updated readme to have more overall data on how serial_node works

src/serial_node/README.md, after:

Ethan Edwards; February 15th, 2026; serial\_node & serial\_msgs

### serial\_msgs 

Now has three different .msg files:

- **CurrentBusVoltage.msg** (header 0x01) ⚡  
* float32 front\_left\_wheel\_current \#amps  
* float32 back\_left\_wheel\_current  
* float32 front\_right\_wheel\_current  
* float32 back\_right\_wheel\_current  
* float32 front\_drum\_current  
* float32 back\_drum\_current  
* float32 front\_actuator\_current  
* float32 back\_actuator\_current  
* float32 main\_battery\_voltage \#volts  
* float32 aux\_battery\_voltage  
- **Temperature.msg** (header 0x02) 🔥  
* float32 front\_left\_wheel\_temperature \#°C  
* float32 back\_left\_wheel\_temperature  
* float32 front\_right\_wheel\_temperature  
* float32 back\_right\_wheel\_temperature  
* float32 front\_drum\_temperature  
* float32 back\_drum\_temperature  
- **Position.msg** (header 0x03) 🌎  
* float32 front\_actuator\_position \# calibrated position  
* float32 back\_actuator\_position

(Note: Feedback.msg still exists, but is now a deprecated file that should *not* be used)  
The messages are created via the following [documentation](https://github.com/MARS-UVA/ESP32S3_25-26/blob/main/ESP-Projects/main/user_libs/uart/serial_feedback_format.md).

Each line is a **float32** to account for the four bytes of data for each data piece; first four bytes aren’t written in the message files as they are covered by **serial\_node** in order to extract the **header** (documented later). ✍️

### serial\_node/serial\_handler.py:

**send** function:  
Writes bytes to Serial to be read later by **readMsg**.

**readMsg** function:  
**readMsg** function accounts for **three different message types**. The message is read from the **self.SER** (Serial) object. The **header** is stored within the **first four bytes**, and is saved to the variable **self.currentHeader** if self.currentHeader is zero (aka, doesn’t have a header stored right now). The actual header info is stored within the byte at **index 1** (as seen in the above documentation), and **readMsg** checks for a message of a **certain length** (either 8 bytes, 24 bytes, or 40 bytes) depending on the header.  📖  
When a full message is received, it is read and returned with the header as a **tuple** of **(header, feedback)**, where header is **4 bytes**, and feedback is a **list** of **4 byte pairs** (to match the .msg file sizes). 📋

### serial\_node/node.py:

\_\_init\_\_:  
Subscribes to MotorChanges (from teleop)  
Creates three publishers:

- **current\_bus\_voltage\_publisher**  
- **temperature\_publisher**  
- **position\_publisher**

Creates timer to run **sendCurrents** and **readFeedback**.

**listener\_callback** function:  
Receives a message and stores it as data within the node.

**sendCurrent** function:  
Send data to be written via **serial\_node/serial\_handler.py**.

**readFeedback** function:  
The **readFeedback** function takes a tuple pair **(header, feedback)** from the **readMsg** function in **serial\_node/serial\_handler.py**. Using the header (acquired by header\[1\]), it pairs the feedback with one of the msg classes from **serial\_msgs** and publishes it to the publisher. 🐫  
If the header is 0x00 or nonexistent, it sends “no data” to the logger. 😵
